Notes from the book "Rework"

1. Begin with the stuff "you have to do". Stuff without which your product can not exist. Don't include the stuff which you could or want to do. This is called epicenter of the product.
2. Ignore the details in the beginning. Nail the basics first and worry about the specifics later. Worry about only the big picture in the beginning. 
3. Don't wait for perfect solution. Decide and move forward. Commit to devision making. Don't create a pile of decisions. When you get in the flow of making decision after decision, you build momentum and boost morale. Decisions are progress.
4. Always ask yourself "what can we do right now that's good enough?"
5. You don't have to live with a decision forever. If you make a mistake, you can correct it later.
6. Long projects zap morale. The longer it takes to develop, the less likely it is to launch. Make the call, make progress, and get something out now - while you've got the motivation and momentum to do so.
7. Be a curator. Constantly look for things to remove, simplify and streamline. Stick to what is truly essential.
8. Keep your focus on "permanent features", the ones which will never go out of demand or style.
9. In business, too many people obsess over tools, software tricks, scaling issues, fancy office space, lavish furniture and other frivolities instead of what really matters. And what really matters is how to actually get customers and make money.
10. Get it out there now. Launch now.
11. Once your product does what it needs to do, get it out there. Think of it this way: if you had to launch your business in two weeks, what would you cut out?
12. Why are you doing this? What is this for? Who benefits? What's the motivation behind it? What's the problem? Are customers confused? Is something not clear enough? Are you making something useful or just making something? Are you adding value ? Adding something is easy, adding value is hard. Will the product change behavior? Is there an easier way?
13. Prioritize on the work which is most important within the deadline.
14. Remove interruptions. Have few hours of time when you work without any disturbance. The smartphone notifications, Instagram feed and YouTube videos are some of the interruptions. 
15. You build something which gets the job done and then move on. This approach may not earn you oohs and aahs, but it lets you get on with it.
16. Sometimes timelines are more important than  "perfect" quality.
17. Remember, you can usually turn good enough into great later.
18. Quick wins. Momentum fuels motivation. It drives you. Without it, you can't go anywhere. The way you build momentum is by getting something done and then moving on to the next thing.
19. To keep your momentum and motivation up, get in the habit of accomplishing small victories along the way. Even a tiny improvement can give you a good jolt of momentum.
20. If you absolutely have to work on long term projects, try to dedicate one day a week to small victories that generate enthusiasm.
21. Take good sleep. Forgoing sleep is a bad idea. You destroy your creativity, morale and attitude.
22. Don't create long todo lists. Instead create bunch of smaller todo lists. Example, break a single list of hundred items into ten lists of ten items each. You still have same amount of work but now you start looking at small picture and find satisfaction, motivation, and progress.
23. Keep high priority things on top in todo list
24. Do it yourself first. Before hiring someone for some work, do that work yourself for as long as you could. This way you will know whom to hire, what to expect from them and what they can and should deliver.
25. Hire when it hurts. Don't hire for pleasure. Hire to kill pain. Similarly, if you lose someone, don't replace him immediately. See how long you can get by without that person and that position.
26. While hiring, requiring some baseline level of experience can be a good idea when hiring. It makes sense to go after candidates with six months to a year of experience. It takes that long to internalize the idioms, learn how things work, understand the relevant tools etc. After that curve flattens out. There's surprisingly little difference between a candidate with six months of experience and one with six years. The real difference comes from the individual's dedication, personality, and intelligence.
27. With a small team, you need people who are going to do work, not delegate work. Everyone's got to be producing. Avoid joining delegators, who love telling other what to do. They clog pipe for others by coming up with busy work.
28. Delegators love to pull people into meetings, too. Meetings are delegators nest friends. That's where they get to seem important. Everyone else who attends is pulled away from getting real work done.
29. Hire managers of one. People who come up with their own goals and execute them. They don't need heavy durection. They don't need daily check ins. They do what a manager would do - set the tone, assign items, determine what needs to get done etc. But they do it by themselves and for themselves.
30. Hire great writers. Be it marketer, salesperson, designer, programmer, or whatever. Clear writing is a sign of clear thinking. Great writer know how to communicate. They make things easy to understand.
31. Geography just doesn't matter anymore. Hire the best talent, regardless of where it is. Do remote work with few hours of overlap.
32. Test drive employees. Hire them for a miniproject, even if it's for just 20 or 40 hours. You'll see how they make decisions. You'll see of you get along.
33. Own your bad news. Whenever something bad happens tell your customers. People will respect you if you're open, honest, public, and responsive during a crisis. The message should come from the top. The highest ranking person available should take control in a forceful way.
34. You don't create a culture. It happens. This is why new companies don't have a culture. Culture is by product of consistent behavior. If you reward trust, the trust will be your culture. If you treat customers right, then treating customers right becomes your culture.